.TH EPGREP 1 EPKILL
.SH NAME
epgrep - pgrep with environment constraints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR epgrep
.RI [ OPTION ]...\  PATTERN
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B epgrep
looks through the currently running processes and
lists the process identifiers which match the selection
criteria to stdout. All the criteria have to match.
.PP
.I PATTERN
Specifies an Extended Regular Expression for matching
against the process names or command lines.
.PP
.B epgrep
is enhancement of
.BR pgrep (1)
which adds support for filtering processes using
constraints on the environment variables.
.PP
To restrict the found processes to those that have the
environment variable
.I VAR
set to
.IR VAL ,
add the option
.IR VAR \fB=\fP VAL .
.I VAL
can be empty, but
.I VAR
cannot be empty. This means the
.IB VAR =
will not pass if
.I VAR
is defined, it will only pass if the value of
.I VAR
is an empty string. To select process with the same
value for
.I VAR
as the current process, you can use the shorthand
.BR = \fIVAR\fP.
The select processes that have
.I VAR
defined, possibly empty, use
.BR += \FIVAR\fP.
You can prefix any of these selectors with an
exclamation point, to require the it does not
hold true. For example,
.BI ! VAR =
will pass if
.I VAR
is not defined or is non-empty. You specify multiple
constraints, a process will only be selected if all
constraints are met. For example,
.BI += VAR \ ! VAR =
will pass only if
.I VAR
is defined and is not empty. If required, you can
prefix the argument with an at-sign to force it to
be parsed as an environment constraint if it would
otherwise start with a hyphen.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ,\  \-\-list-full
List the full command line as well as the process ID.
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-count
Count of matching processes.
.TP
.BR \-d ,\  \-\-delimiter \ \fISYM\fP
Specify output delimiter.
.TP
.BR \-f ,\  \-\-full
Use full process name to match.
.TP
.BR \-F ,\  \-\-pidfile \ \fIFILE\fP
Read PID:s from file.
.TP
.BR \-g ,\  \-\-pgroup \ \fIPGRP\fP
Match listed process group ID:s.
.TP
.BR \-G ,\  \-\-group \ \fIGID\fP
Match real group ID:s.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Display this help information.
.TP
.BR \-l ,\  \-\-list-name
List PID and process name.
.TP
.BR \-L ,\  \-\-logpidfile
Fail if PID file is not locked.
.TP
.BR \-n ,\  \-\-newest
Select most recently started.
.TP
.BR \-o ,\  \-\-oldest
Select least recently started.
.TP
.BR \-P ,\  \-\-parent \ \fIPPID\fP
Match only child processes of the given parent.
.TP
.BR \-s ,\  \-\-session \ \fISID\fP
Match session ID:s.
.TP
.BR \-t ,\  \-\-terminal \ \fITERM\fP
Match by controlling terminal.
.TP
.BR \-u ,\  \-\-euid \ \fIEUID\fP
Match by effective ID:s.
.TP
.BR \-U ,\  \-\-uid \ \fIUID\fP
Match by real ID:s.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-inverse
Negates the matching.
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
Print the name and version of this program.
.TP
.BR \-w ,\  \-\-lightweight
List all TID.
.TP
.BR \-x ,\  \-\-exact
Match exactly with the command name.
.TP
.BI \-\-ns\  PID
Match the processes that belong to the same namespace as <PID>.
.TP
.BI \-\-nslist\  NAME
List which namespaces will be considered for the --ns option.
.br
Available namespaces: ipc, mnt, net, pid, user, uts.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
One or more processes matched the criteria.
.TP
.B 1
No processes matched.
.TP
.B 2
Syntax error in the command line.
.TP
.B 3
Fatal error.
.SH RATIONALE
If you have multiple display servers running, it is
common that you want to kill a program that is you
have running in multiple display servers, but only
kill it in a specific display server. For example,
if you are restarting you window manager you may
also want to restart panels and other programs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dpgrep (1),
.BR epkill (1),
.BR epidof (1),
.BR pgrep (1)
.PP
Full documentation available locally via: info \(aq(epkill)\(aq
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the COPYING file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2014, 2015  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/epkill/issues or to
maandree@member.fsf.org
