.TH EPIDOF 1 EPKILL
.SH NAME
epidof - pidof with environment constraints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR epidof
.RI [ OPTION ]...\ [ PROGRAM ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B epidof
finds the process identifiers (PID:s) of the named
programs. It prints those identifiers to stdout.
.PP
.B epidof
is enhancement of
.BR pidof (1)
which adds support for filtering processes using
constraints on the environment variables.
.PP
To restrict the found processes to those that have the
environment variable
.I VAR
set to
.IR VAL ,
add the option
.IR VAR \fB=\fP VAL .
.I VAL
can be empty, but
.I VAR
cannot be empty. This means the
.IB VAR =
will not pass if
.I VAR
is defined, it will only pass if the value of
.I VAR
is an empty string. To select process with the same
value for
.I VAR
as the current process, you can use the shorthand
.BR = \fIVAR\fP.
The select processes that have
.I VAR
defined, possibly empty, use
.BR += \FIVAR\fP.
You can prefix any of these selectors with an
exclamation point, to require the it does not
hold true. For example,
.BI ! VAR =
will pass if
.I VAR
is not defined or is non-empty. You specify multiple
constraints, a process will only be selected if all
constraints are met. For example,
.BI += VAR \ ! VAR =
will pass only if
.I VAR
is defined and is not empty. If required, you can
prefix the argument with an at-sign to force it to
be parsed as an environment constraint if it would
otherwise start with a hyphen.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-check-root
Restrict to processes running under the same root.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Display this help information.
.TP
.BR \-o ,\  \-\-omit-pid \ \fIPID\fP
Do not return a specific process ID.
.TP
.BR \-s ,\  \-\-single-shot
Return only one process ID.
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
.TP
.BR \-x ,\  \-\-scripts
Test the name of scripts.
Print the name and version of this program.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
At least one program was found with the requested name.
.TP
.B 1
No program was found with the requested name.
.SH RATIONALE
If you have multiple display servers running, it is
common that you want to kill a program that is you
have running in multiple display servers, but only
kill it in a specific display server. For example,
if you are restarting you window manager you may
also want to restart panels and other programs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dpidof (1),
.BR epkill (1),
.BR epgrep (1),
.BR pidof (1)
.PP
Full documentation available locally via: info \(aq(epkill)\(aq
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the COPYING file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2014, 2015  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to m@maandree.se
